No problem. To transform Eduteller from a concept into a robust digital platform, we will utilize a modern PHP ecosystem centered on the Laravel framework. Laravel is the industry standard for PHP development due to its elegant syntax, rapid development tools (Artisan), and extensive security features.
The following developer workflow is designed to handle the unique requirements of narrative-based education, specifically focusing on branching logic, offline-first capabilities for the Nigerian market, and standardized learning tracking.
Phase 1: Environment & Architecture Setup
To ensure the project is scalable and consistent across the development team, we will use a containerized environment.
1. Containerization (Laravel Sail): Use Docker via Laravel Sail to bundle PHP 8.3+, MySQL, Redis (for caching), and Meilisearch (for story searching).
   * Command: curl -s "https://laravel.build/eduteller?with=mysql,redis,meilisearch" | bash.
2. Core Architecture: Implement a Layered Architecture. Beyond the standard MVC (Model-View-Controller), we will use Actions to encapsulate specific narrative logic, such as ProcessBranchingChoiceAction or AwardStoryBadgeAction.
3. Database Strategy: Utilize Eloquent ORM with ULIDs (Universally Unique Lexicographically Sortable Identifiers) instead of standard IDs to prevent data scraping and improve distributed syncing.
Phase 2: Narrative Engine Development (The Story Logic)
The "Heart" of Eduteller is the branching narrative engine.
1. State Management with PHP Enums: Use native PHP Enums to define story states (e.g., Draft, Published, Archived) and branching types.
2. Finite State Machine (FSM): Implement an FSM logic to handle "Choice-based" transitions. For example, a student’s progress through a module is a series of states.
   * Implementation: Use the winzou/state-machine PHP package to define transitions and "Guard" callbacks that prevent a student from progressing until a specific learning objective is met.
3. Database Relationships: Define Many-to-Many Polymorphic Relationships for educational artifacts. This allows "Stories" to be linked to "Quizzes," "Videos," or "Interactive Maps" through a single pivot table.
Phase 3: Offline-First PWA Implementation
Connectivity is a primary barrier in Nigeria. We will build Eduteller as a Progressive Web App (PWA) using a PHP-centric approach.


1. Service Worker Strategy: Use the laravel-pwa package to generate a service-worker.js. This script intercepts network requests and serves the "App Shell" from the cache instantly.
2. Data Persistence (IndexedDB): For the "Eduteller Experience," learning progress must be saved locally when the student is in a "dead zone" (offline).
   * Logic: Use Laravel Livewire with the wire:offline directive to provide immediate visual feedback when the connection is lost.
3. Background Sync: Implement a "Queue" in the browser. When the student completes a story chapter offline, the data is saved to IndexedDB. Once the device detects an internet connection, the Service Worker uses the Background Sync API to "push" those progress markers to the Laravel backend.
Phase 4: Tracking & Analytics (xAPI Integration)
To capture rich data from branching narratives, we will use xAPI (Experience API) rather than the older SCORM standard.


1. xAPI Statements: Each choice a student makes will generate an xAPI statement: [Actor].
2. PHP Integration: Use the escolalms/lrs package to integrate a "Learning Record Store" (LRS) directly into the Laravel app.
   * Workflow: When a student crosses a "Narrative Threshold," an asynchronous Laravel Job is dispatched to send the xAPI statement to the LRS, ensuring the user interface remains fast and responsive.
Phase 5: Media Optimization & Local Payments
1. Video Transcoding: Use FFmpeg via the php-ffmpeg library. When an educator uploads a narrative video, the server will automatically compress it for low-bandwidth mobile users in Nigeria (e.g., converting to 480p H.264).
2. Payment Gateway (Flutterwave): Integrate the Flutterwave PHP SDK for B2B (School) and B2C (Parent) subscriptions.
   * Benefit: Flutterwave supports Nigerian-specific methods like USSD, bank transfers, and Verve cards, which have higher success rates in the region.
Phase 6: CI/CD & Security
1. Automated Workflow: Use GitHub Actions for the CI/CD pipeline.
   * Steps: On every "Push," the workflow will:
      1. Run PHPUnit for feature tests.
      2. Run PHPStan for static analysis to ensure code quality.
      3. Build the Docker image and deploy it to the production server.
2. Security Measures:
   * Strict WCAG 2.1 Compliance in the Blade templates (e.g., required Alt-Text for all story images).

   * Rate Limiting on all educational APIs to prevent bot attacks and ensure server stability.
I've outlined a complete end-to-end PHP workflow for the Eduteller portal. Let me know if you would like me to expand on any specific module, such as the branching logic code or the payment setup.